Have you ever stopped at the end of the day and ask yourself that question?
Who is it that touched me today?
Not in a physical sense
but in a way that really
truly matters.
Who left an impression on me?
Who reminded me of something that I had forgotten?
Something about kindness, something about faith, something about love?
It's easy to go throughout our daily interactions with people
and forget about just that, the people.
A conversation in the hallway and email exchange, a casual remark from a coworker,
all of these moments can go unnoticed.
And yet, each one holds potential, each one holds promise.
The challenge isn't whether we're going to encounter people because that's going to happen.
In Jehovah's organization, it's all about the people.
But it's whether you're going to let the people touch you in a way that makes a difference.
Jesus understood the value of human connection
as busy as he was with the weight of the world on his shoulders.
Jesus always took time for people.
He took time for the leper as well as the rich young ruler.
Jesus took time for the old and the young, the rich and the poor, the Jew and the Greek.
Jesus sought to see others as his Heavenly Father saw them.
And he took time to try to understand people.
What makes them tick?
Jesus genuinely wanted to see people.
He wanted to see people.
He wanted to see their struggles.
He wanted to experience their faith.
He wanted to understand their untold stories.
Let's take one account that highlights this.
It's recorded in the book of Mark chapter 5.
This is another day for Jesus, filled with people.
Jesus and his disciples had just returned from the decapolis.
They'd landed on the northwestern shore of the sea of Galilee.
There were more people when he got to the shore waiting for him.
And among the people was a synagogue ruler whose name was Jairus.
He was desperate to see Jesus because his daughter was sick.
And he wanted Jesus to come and help his daughter.
Now, as Jesus walked with Jairus to his home,
another story unfolds.
It's a story that had been 12 years in the making.
Let's pick up the reading at verses 25 and 26 of Mark chapter 5.
It says,
Now, there was a woman who had a flow of blood for 12 years.
She had suffered much at the hands of many physicians
and had spent all her resources.
And she was no better, but rather had become worse.
What a difficult situation it was for this poor woman,
the toll this disease must have taken on her body and her mind.
Every day when she went to bed, she knew that when she woke up,
she would be faced with this burden to greet her.
She felt trapped. She felt imprisoned.
The constancy of this chronic illness was enough to drive her to madness.
This woman was damaged physically, emotionally, mentally,
and even financially.
But she had enough faith to touch the fringes of Jesus garment
and she was healed as you see in verses 27 to 29.
But note Jesus' reaction when she touched him, verses 30 to 33.
Immediately, Jesus realized in himself that power had gone out of him.
And he turned around in the crowd and asked,
Who touched my outer garments?
But his disciples said to him,
You see the crowd pressing in on you and you ask, Who touched me?
However, he was looking around to see who had done this.
The woman frightened and trembling,
knowing what had happened to her came and fell down before him
and told him the whole truth.
Who touched my outer garments?
Who touched me?
The implications of those questions are far-reaching.
Jesus was literally wondering who touched him in a physical sense,
but it was more than just the physical touch that Jesus was interested in.
Verse 30 says that when she touched Jesus, he realized that power had gone out from him.
So Jesus did not directly heal this woman as he did in other instances,
such as when he reached out to touch the hand of the leper,
or he reached out to touch the eyes of the blind man.
He knew that this healing was different.
This was the direct work of his father, Jehovah.
Jehovah healed this woman and Jesus wanted to know who it was
that his heavenly father was so interested in that he would be willing to heal this woman in this way.
Jehovah knew her story.
Jesus wanted to know it too.
So in verse 33, Jesus listened to the whole truth,
and Jesus got to understand why his father loved this woman so much.
What was the whole truth?
What was her name?
How old was she?
Was she ever married?
Did her husband leave her because of her illness?
Did her children abandon her?
We only know what is recorded in the gospel accounts.
But whatever the whole truth was, Jesus allowed that woman to express her whole story,
and it moved him not to chastise her because she broke a law,
but it moved her or him to love her because now he knew who she was because she touched him.
About 15 years ago, I was in a class with presiding overseers as they were known at the time,
and I noticed a brother in the front of the class who never answered.
He never raised his hand.
He was very disengaged, and mostly he just stared at the whiteboard.
So I said to myself, I wonder what he's thinking.
It's so sad he's missing out on all this good education.
Then the instructor asked the question, how many of you had challenges coming to school?
Lo and behold, he raises his hand, and the instructor calls on him.
We're shocked waiting for what he's going to say.
This is what he said.
Brothers, I have a serious brain disease, and only have months to live.
My only prayer was just to live long enough to attend this class.
It's been hard to concentrate, but I'm here and I'm thankful.
Today is Thursday, and if I die today, I'll die the happiest man who ever lived.
I misjudged that man.
I viewed him as disinterested and disengaged, and he was struggling just to stay alive.
He touched me that day.
He touched me in a way I will never forget.
Every brother or sister who comes into your life is like a book that contains a beautiful story.
Take time to open the book, ask them questions, thumb through the pages of their life.
You'll be amazed at what you learn and what you come to love about them,
because now you know their story.
You know why Jehovah loves them.
But remember, not everyone is the same.
Some will tell you the whole story, and you wonder, is there any end to this story?
But then others will tell you very little because they're very private, but that's okay.
Everyone's touch is different.
Just take the initiative and be satisfied with whatever they are willing to give you.
Let's go back to Mark chapter 5.
After Jesus was touched by this woman's whole story, note what Jesus did to touch her.
Verse 34.
He said to her, daughter, your faith has made you well.
Go in peace. Be healed from your grievous sickness.
Jesus did more than heal her body.
He or his tender words healed her mind and her heart.
He restored that woman's dignity.
He made her feel good about herself.
Class 157 in the days ahead.
Work to foster an atmosphere in your assignment where people feel valued,
where they feel appreciated, where their presence really means something.
Listen to their whole story.
Let their stories deepen your empathy.
Let their faith strengthen your heart.
Let their struggles help you to realize that we're all in this together.
That's what Jesus did.
That's what we can do.
So when this day ends and you're getting ready for bed, take a moment to think.
Think about someone that came into your life today.
How did they touch you?
But here's an even better question for you to contemplate in the days ahead.
When you are in your assignment, Class 157,
whose life will you take time to touch?